## Cutting fuel taxes is a bad idea
[web](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2022/03/26/cutting-fuel-taxes-is-a-bad-idea)

Governments that are trying to **shield voters from** soaring energy and fuel costs are **coalescing around** a simple idea: help people buy petrol.
- coalesce vi. 合并；联合；结合

make it harder to **wean** the rich world **off** fossil fuels
- wean vt. 断奶，使断奶

There are better ways to help people **cope with** rising energy prices. 

consumers enjoyed only 70% of the **upside**
- upside n. （糟糕局面的）好的一面，正面

perverse adj. 不通情达理的；任性的，无理取闹的

Governments should be trying to reduce the demand for fuel, not **stoke** it. 
- stoke vt. 激起；煽动；给……添加燃料

diesel 柴油机；柴油；内燃汽车

Driving bears more of the other costs it imposes on society, such as **congested** roads and dirty air.
- congested 拥挤的
- congest 拥挤；使充血

Fuel duties are notoriously difficult to raise because they are so unpopular.

motor n. 发动机，汽车；马达 adj. 机动车的，汽车的 vi. 乘车旅行；驾车旅行

**Adjusted for** today’s higher price at the pump, the share of spending is still lower than the average since records began in 1959.

There are better ways to help struggling households than to **lean against** the price mechanism.
- lean v. 倾斜；倚靠；前俯（或后仰）
  > lean against 倚靠

He should also have made universal credit, Britain’s **stingy** main welfare benefit, more generous.
- stingy 吝啬的，小气的

offset the full **spectrum** of forces that are eroding living standards

The biggest blow to Europe’s wallets is coming not at the pump
> pump here is gas station